Neptune.ai integration (#1082)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/component-gallery/experiment-trackers/neptune.md

---

> description: How to log and visualize experiments with Neptune.ai

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to log and visualize experiments with neptune.ai
```

---

> The Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker is an [Experiment Tracker](./experiment-trackers.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Neptune Experiment Tracker is an [Experiment Tracker](./experiment-trackers.md)
```

> flavor provided with the Neptune.ai ZenML integration that uses

Reviewer: ```suggestion
flavor provided with the Neptune-ZenML integration that uses
```

> [the Neptune.ai experiment tracking platform](https://neptune.ai/product/experiment-tracking)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[neptune.ai](https://neptune.ai/product/experiment-tracking)
```

to log and visualize information from your pipeline steps (e.g. models, parameters,
metrics).

## When would you want to use it?

> [Neptune.ai](https://neptune.ai/product/experiment-tracking) is a very

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Neptune](https://neptune.ai/product/experiment-tracking) is a
```

popular platform that you would normally use in the iterative ML experimentation
phase to track and visualize experiment results. That doesn't mean that it

> cannot be repurposed to track and visualize the results produced by your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
track and visualize the results produced by your
```

automated pipeline runs, as you make the transition towards a more production
oriented workflow.

> You should use the Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use the Neptune Experiment Tracker:
```

> * if you have already been using Neptune.ai to track experiment results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if you have already been using neptune.ai to track experiment results
```

for your project and would like to continue doing so as you are incorporating 
MLOps workflows and best practices in your project through ZenML.
* if you are looking for a more visually interactive way of navigating the
results produced from your ZenML pipeline runs (e.g. models, metrics, datasets)

> * if you would like to connect ZenML to Neptune.ai to share the artifacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* if you would like to connect ZenML to neptune.ai to share the artifacts
```

and metrics logged by your pipelines with your team, organization or external
stakeholders

You should consider one of the other [Experiment Tracker flavors](./experiment-trackers.md#experiment-tracker-flavors)

> if you have never worked with Neptune.ai before and would rather use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if you have never worked with neptune.ai before and would rather use
```

another experiment tracking tool that you are more familiar with.

## How do you deploy it?

The Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker flavor is provided by the MLflow ZenML

> integration, you need to install it on your local machine to be able to register

Reviewer: ```suggestion
integration. You need to install it on your local machine to be able to register
```

> a Weights & Biases Experiment Tracker and add it to your stack:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Neptune Experiment Tracker and add it to your stack:
```

```shell
zenml integration install neptune -y
```

> The Neptune. Experiment Tracker needs to be configured with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Neptune Experiment Tracker needs to be configured with the
```

> The Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker needs to be configured with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Neptune. Experiment Tracker needs to be configured with the
```

> credentials required to connect to the Neptune.ai platform using API-token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credentials required to connect to Neptune using an API token.
```

### Authentication Methods

You need to configure the following credentials for authentication to
Neptune:

> * `api_token`: API key token of your Neptune account. If left blank, Neptune will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `api_token`: [API key token](https://docs.neptune.ai/setup/setting_api_token) of your Neptune account. If left blank, Neptune will
```

> You need to configure the following credentials for authentication to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to configure the following credentials for authentication to
```

> Neptune.ai platform:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Neptune:
```

> * `api_token`: API key token of your Neptune.ai account. If left blank, Neptune will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `api_token`: API key token of your Neptune account. If left blank, Neptune will
```

attempt to retrieve it from your environment variables.

> * `project`: The name of the project where you're sending the new run. If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `project`: The name of the project where you're sending the new run, in the form "workspace-name/project-name".
```

> the project is not specified, Neptune will attempt to retrieve it from your environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the project is not specified, Neptune will attempt to retrieve it from your environment variables.
```

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Basic Authentication" %}

> This option configures the credentials for the Weights & Biases platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option configures the credentials for neptune.ai
```

directly as stack component attributes.

{% hint style="warning" %}
This is not recommended for production settings as the credentials won't be
stored securely and will be clearly visible in the stack configuration.
{% endhint %}

```shell

> # Register the Weights & Biases experiment tracker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Register the Neptune experiment tracker
```

zenml experiment-tracker register neptune_experiment_tracker --flavor=neptune \ 
    --project=<project_name> --api_token=<token>

# Register and set a stack with the new experiment tracker
zenml stack register custom_stack -e neptune_experiment_tracker ... --set
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Secrets Manager (Recommended)" %}

This method requires you to include a [Secrets Manager](../secrets-managers/secrets-managers.md)

> in your stack and configure a ZenML secret to store the Neptune.ai

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in your stack and configure a ZenML secret to store the neptune.ai
```

credentials securely.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**This method is not yet supported!**

> We are actively working on adding Secrets Manager support to the Neptune

Reviewer 2: Correct, it's even specified correctly as `api_token: Optional[str] = SecretField()` in the config. I just checked and this is probably copied from the MLflow experiment tracker docs, which say the same thing (not yet supported). We should probably in both cases just link to the secrets page?

> We are actively working on adding Secrets Manager support to the Neptune

Reviewer 2: @htahir1 I see this as something that one of us should write instead of @AleksanderWWW, as it's not really related to the integration and requires knowledge about secrets/secret managers. wdyt?

> We are actively working on adding Secrets Manager support to the Neptune

Author: Ok. I think that the remaining suggestions have been implemented

> We are actively working on adding Secrets Manager support to the Neptune.ai

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are actively working on adding Secrets Manager support to the Neptune
```

Experiment Tracker.
{% endhint %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

> For more, up-to-date information on the Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more, up-to-date information on the Neptune Experiment Tracker
```

implementation and its configuration, you can have a look at [the API docs](https://apidocs.zenml.io/latest/integration_code_docs/integrations-wandb/#zenml.integrations.neptune.experiment_trackers.neptune_experiment_tracker).

## How do you use it?

> To be able to log information from a ZenML pipeline step using the Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker component in the active stack, you need to enable an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log information from a ZenML pipeline step using the Neptune Experiment Tracker component in the active stack, you need to enable an
```

> experiment tracker using the `@step` decorator. Then fetch Neptune run object and use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experiment tracker using the `@step` decorator. Then fetch the Neptune run object and use
```

> logging capabilities as you would normally do, e.g.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
logging capabilities as you would normally do. For example:
```

```python
import numpy as np

import tensorflow as tf

from neptune_tensorflow_keras import NeptuneCallback

from zenml.integrations.neptune.experiment_trackers.run_state import (
    get_neptune_run,
)
from zenml.steps import BaseParameters, step

class TrainerParameters(BaseParameters):
    """Trainer params"""

    epochs: int = 5
    lr: float = 0.001

@step(experiment_tracker="<NEPTUNE_TRACKER_STACK_COMPONENT_NAME>")
def tf_trainer(
    params: TrainerParameters,
    x_train: np.ndarray,
    y_train: np.ndarray,
    x_val: np.ndarray,
    y_val: np.ndarray,
) -> tf.keras.Model:
    
    ...
    neptune_run = get_neptune_run()
    model.fit(
        x_train,
        y_train,
        epochs=params.epochs,
        validation_data=(x_val, y_val),
        callbacks=[
            NeptuneCallback(run=neptune_run),
        ],
    )

    ...
```

### Additional configuration

> You can pass a set of tags to the neptune run by using the NeptuneExperimentTrackerSettings class like in the example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can pass a set of tags to the Neptune run by using the `NeptuneExperimentTrackerSettings` class, like in the example
```

below:

```python
import numpy as np

import tensorflow as tf

from zenml.steps import step
from zenml.integrations.neptune.experiment_trackers.run_state import (
    get_neptune_run,
)
from zenml.integrations.neptune.flavors import NeptuneExperimentTrackerSettings

neptune_settings = NeptuneExperimentTrackerSettings(tags={"keras", "mnist"})

@step(
    experiment_tracker="<NEPTUNE_TRACKER_STACK_COMPONENT_NAME>",
    settings={
        "experiment_tracker.neptune": neptune_settings
    }
)
def my_step(
        x_test: np.ndarray,
        y_test: np.ndarray,
        model: tf.keras.Model,
) -> float:

>     """Log metadata to neptune run"""

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    """Log metadata to Neptune run"""
```

    neptune_run = get_neptune_run()
    ...
```

You can also check out our examples pages for working examples that use the

> Neptune.ai Experiment Tracker in their stacks:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Neptune Experiment Tracker in their stacks:
```

> - [Track Experiments with Neptune.ai](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/tree/main/examples/neptune_tracking)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Track Experiments with neptune.ai](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/tree/main/examples/neptune_tracking)
```
